IBX-812: Updated Back Office components (#1577)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/extending/creating_custom_dropdowns.md

## Prepare custom drop-down structure

First prepare the component structure and place it in the template inside the `content` section. See the example:

```twig

> {% include '@ezdesign/ui/component/dropdown.html.twig' with {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include '@ibexadesign/ui/component/dropdown.html.twig' with {
```

    source,

>     choices: choices,
>     preferred_choices: preferred_choices,
>     value: value,
>     multiple: multiple,
>     translation_domain: translation_domain,
>     custom_form: custom_form,
>     class: class,
>     placeholder: placeholder,
>     custom_init: custom_init

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    choices,
    preferred_choices,
    value,
    multiple,
    translation_domain,
    custom_form,
    class,
    placeholder,
    custom_init,
```

    }]
}] %}
```

To set `preferred_choices`, use the following:

```twig
{% set preferred_choices = [{
    value: "NO",
    label: "NO"
}] %}
```

For `value`, see the example:

```twig
{% set value = [{
    value: "DE",
    label: "DE"
}] %}
```

You can configure the following attributes:

Name|Values|Definition|
|---|------|----------|
|`source`| - |What is currently defined in the `<select>` input header.|
|`choices`| - |Elements listed in the drop-down.|
|`preferred_choices`|Elements listed at the top of the list with a separator.|
|`value`|-|The currently selected element.It is an object with a key `value`. |
|`multiple`| true</br>false|Boolean. To allow users to select multiple items, add this attribute to the same element.|
|`translation_domain`|true</br>false|Used for translating choices and placeholder.|
|`custom_form`|true</br>false|For custom form must be set to true.|
|`class`| - |Additional classes for the element with `ibexa-dropdown` class.|
`placeholder`|Displayed placeholder when no option is selected.|
|`custom_init`|true</br>false|By default set to `false`. If set to `true`, requires to manually initialize drop-down in the JavaScript.|

> ![Dropd-own expanded state](img/dropdown_expanded_state.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Drop-down expanded state](img/dropdown_expanded_state.png)
```
;)

By the way, both `dropdown` and `drop-down` versions are correct? I always thought that it's written `dropdown`, each day man learn something new...

## Initialize

> All drop-downs are searched and initialized automatically in `admin.dropdown.js`. However, if you want to extend it or make some modifications, run the following JavaScript code:

Reviewer 2: I would add info that in order to extend or make modifications, there has to be added `custom_init` to twig element, otherwise it will be initialized two times (which is incorrect)

```javascript
(function (global, document) {
const container = document.querySelector('.ibexa-dropdown');

> const dropdown = new global.ibexa.core.CustomDropdown({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const dropdown = new global.ibexa.core.Dropdown({
```

>     container: container,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    container,
```

> const dropdown = new global.eZ.core.CustomDropdown({

Reviewer: here and in other places (js/twig)
```suggestion
const dropdown = new global.ibexa.core.CustomDropdown({
```

>     selectorSource: selectorSource,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    selectorSource,
```

>     itemsContainer: container.querySelector('.ibexa-dropdown__items'),
>     hasDefaultSelection: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

These properties should be removed, now we use only `container` and `selectorSource`

## Prepare custom drop-down structure

First prepare the component structure and place it in the template inside the `content` section. See the example:

```twig
{% include '@ibexadesign/ui/component/dropdown.html.twig' with {
    source,
    choices,
    preferred_choices,
    value,
    multiple,
    translation_domain,
    custom_form,
    class,
    placeholder,
    custom_init,

> } %}

Reviewer 2: Well... bad news, since we first talked about it, dropdown was expanded a little and there are new properties that can be passed. :)

`is_disabled` - allows to disable dropdown
`is_hidden` - allows to hide whole widget
`is_small` - adjust height of widget (from 48px to 32px)
`is_ghost` - changes layout of widget, it removes all borders and backgrounds (similar to buttons modifier)
`min_search_items` - default 5, minimum number of options that has to be passed to show search inside dropdown
`selected_item_label` - allows to set constant label for widget, by default visible label shows currently selected options

ping me on Slack if you need more info or sth is unclear

    value: "PL",
    label: "PL",
    choices: [{
        value: "PL_S",
        label: "Silesian"
    }, {
        value: "PL_K",
        label: "Kashubian"
    }]
}] %}
```

To set `preferred_choices`, use the following:

```twig
{% set preferred_choices = [{
    value: "NO",
    label: "NO"
}] %}
```

For `value`, see the example:

```twig
{% set value = [{
    value: "DE",
    label: "DE"
}] %}
```

You can configure the following attributes:

Name|Values|Definition|
|---|------|----------|
|`source`| - |What is currently defined in the `<select>` input header.|
|`choices`| - |Elements listed in the drop-down.|
|`preferred_choices`|Elements listed at the top of the list with a separator.|
|`value`|-|The currently selected element.It is an object with a key `value`. |
|`multiple`| true</br>false|Boolean. To allow users to select multiple items, add this attribute to the same element.|
|`translation_domain`|true</br>false|Used for translating choices and placeholder.|
|`custom_form`|true</br>false|For custom form must be set to true.|
|`class`| - |Additional classes for the element with `ibexa-dropdown` class.|
`placeholder`|Displayed placeholder when no option is selected.|

> |`custom_init`|true</br>false|By default set to `false`. If set to `true`, requires to manually initialize drop-down in the JavaScript.|

Reviewer 2: as I wrote above, there are new properties, here there are available values:

`is_disabled` - true/false
`is_hidden` - true/false
`is_small` - true/false
`is_ghost` - true/false
`min_search_items` - number, default 5
`selected_item_label` - text

## Prepare custom drop-down structure

First prepare the component structure and place it in the template inside the `content` section. See the example:

```twig
{% include '@ibexadesign/ui/component/dropdown.html.twig' with {
    source,
    choices,
    preferred_choices,
    value,
    multiple,
    translation_domain,
    custom_form,
    class,
    placeholder,
    custom_init,
    is_disabled,
    is_hidden,
    is_small,
    is_ghost,
    min_search_items,
    selected_item_label,
} %}
```

## Create `<select>` input

Next, set elements which are available for the `<select>` input, for example:

```twig
{% set source %}
<select class="ibexa-input">
    <option value="DE">DE</option>
    <option value="US">US</option>
    <option value="NO">NO</option>
    <option value="PL">PL</option>
</select>
{% endset %}
```

>  `<select>` input shoud have `ibexa-input` class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 `<select>` input must have the `ibexa-input` class.
```

Define `choices`:

```twig
{% set choices = [{
    value: "DE",
    label: "DE"
}, {
    value: "US",
    label: "US"
}, {
    value: "NO",
    label: "NO"
}, {
    value: "PL",
    label: "PL"
}] %}
```

> If you need a multilevel `choices`, use the following structure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need a multilevel `choices` element, use the following structure:
```
or
```suggestion
If you need multilevel choices, use the following structure:
```

```twig
{% set choices = [{
    value: "DE",
    label: "DE"
}, {
    value: "US",
    label: "US"
}, {
    value: "NO",
    label: "NO"
}, {
    value: "PL",
    label: "PL",
    choices: [{
        value: "PL_S",
        label: "Silesian"
    }, {
        value: "PL_K",
        label: "Kashubian"
    }]
}] %}
```

To set `preferred_choices`, use the following:

```twig
{% set preferred_choices = [{
    value: "NO",
    label: "NO"
}] %}
```

For `value`, see the example:

```twig
{% set value = [{
    value: "DE",
    label: "DE"
}] %}
```

You can configure the following attributes:

> Name|Values|Definition|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Name|Values|Definition|
```

|---|------|----------|
|`source`| - |What is currently defined in the `<select>` input header.|
|`choices`| - |Elements listed in the drop-down.|
|`preferred_choices`|Elements listed at the top of the list with a separator.|

> |`value`|-|The currently selected element.It is an object with a key `value`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`value`|-|The currently selected element. It is an object with a key `value`. |
```

> |`multiple`| true</br>false|Boolean. To allow users to select multiple items, add this attribute to the same element.|

Reviewer 3: "the same element" is not clear - does it mean adding `multiple` to every item, or something else?

|`translation_domain`|true</br>false|Used for translating choices and placeholder.|
|`custom_form`|true</br>false|For custom form must be set to true.|
|`class`| - |Additional classes for the element with `ibexa-dropdown` class.|

> `placeholder`|Displayed placeholder when no option is selected.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`placeholder`|Placeholder displayed when no option is selected.|
```

> |`custom_init`|true</br>false|By default set to `false`. If set to `true`, requires to manually initialize drop-down in the JavaScript.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`custom_init`|true</br>false|By default set to `false`. If set to `true`, requires manually initializing drop-down in JavaScript.|
```

|`is_disabled`|true</br>false|Disables drop-down.|
|`is_hidden`|true</br>false|Hides the whole widget.|
|`is_small`|true</br>false|Adjusts height of the widget (from 48px to 32px).|
|`is_ghost`|true</br>false|Changes layout of the widget, removes all borders and backgrounds (similar to buttons modifier).|

> |`min_search_items`|number, default 5|Minimum number of options that has to be passed to show the search inside the drop-down.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`min_search_items`|number, default 5|Minimum number of options that have to be passed to show the search inside the drop-down.|
```

> |`selected_item_label`|text|Allows to set constant label for widget, by default visible label shows currently selected options.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`selected_item_label`|text|Allows setting constant label for widget. By default the visible label shows the currently selected options.|
```

![Drop-down expanded state](img/dropdown_expanded_state.png)

## Initialize

> All drop-downs are searched and initialized automatically in `admin.dropdown.js`. To extend or modify it, you need to add a `custom_init` parameter to twig element. otherwise it will be initialized two times. Next, run the following JavaScript code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All drop-downs are searched and initialized automatically in `admin.dropdown.js`.
To extend or modify the search, you need to add a `custom_init` parameter to the Twig element. Otherwise it will be initialized two times.
Next, run the following JavaScript code:
```
"extend or modify the search", or is something else meant?

|Name|Description|Required|
|----|-----------|--------|
|`container`|Contains a reference to a DOM node where custom drop-down is initialized.|required|
|`selectorSource`|Contains a reference |required|

> |`itemsContainer`|Contains a reference to a duplicated items container.|required|
> |`hasDefaultSelection`|Contains a boolean value. If set to `true` the first option will be selected as a placeholder or selected value.|optional|
> |`selectedItemTemplate`|Contains a literal template string with placeholders for `value` and `label` data.|optional|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion\
```
We no longer use these three parameters

Author: @GrabowskiM which three you mean? :)

Reviewer 2: itemsContainer, hasDefaultSelection and selectedItemTemplate

|Name|Description|Required|
|----|-----------|--------|

> |`container`|Contains a reference to a DOM node where custom drop-down is initialized.|required|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`container`|Contains a reference to a DOM node where the custom drop-down is initialized.|required|
```

> |`selectorSource`|Contains a reference |required|

Reviewer 3: Something missing

|Name|Description|Required|
|----|-----------|--------|
|`container`|Contains a reference to a DOM node where the custom drop-down is initialized.|required|

> |`selectorSource`|Use to change a class on the source element.|required|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`selectorSource`|Use to change class of the source element.|required|
```
